(1) Nagel Proposal.
Mining creates cave complexes.
Plants and monsters might spontaneously generate or something.

(2) Doctus Proposal.
Map edge cells have 'chaos' in them that players can mold into stuff, making the cells a more normal terrain type.

(3) Oipo Proposal.
Map edge cells have something (maybe 'chaos') that can be made into basic materials, which can then be refined into advanced things.

(4) Doctus Proposal II.
Map edge cells have chaos that can be made into general cell types and basic materials, which can then be harvested and used to make more advanced things.

(5) Shalek Proposal.
Elaboration on Doctus' idea. Map edge cells have chaos that can be harvested like a resource and accumulated to be spent modifying other cells and/or creating materials(?). As chaos is harvested it runs out and empty cells are left behind.

I have listed some of the ideas I heard during the discussion and added some of my own.
-Shalek.

Expanding the world.
-You harvest the edge cells to clear the chaos on them leaving empty world cells. 
-Buildings/creations genereate a sort of "creep" like the zerg that clears an area of chaos around them leaving empty space. 
-You can build inside the chaos, chaos is automatically removed to clear an area for the construction.
Any more ideas?

Shrinking the world.
Chaos will regenerate given certain conditions? Lack of activity in a given cell/number of cells?
Maybe chaos doesn't just grow back of the edges but on any unactive area? 
Any more ideas.

Resources.
Trees: To obtain wood/food/seeds?
Wood: To build structures?
Seeds: To grow trees.

